Verse number 1, admittedly at the onset of the message this evening, it's going to be
a springboard into other portions of Scripture that we'll be looking at, but we look here
in 2 Thessalonians 2 and look at verse number 1 and I want you to note, as we consider the
text of Scripture before us, the Apostle Paul is the human penman to the book of 2 Thessalonians.
I believe the Apostle Paul was a man who was fully surrendered, he fully surrendered his
life. Joseph, this sounds really weird to me. Does this sound weird to you guys? No.
It just sounds really weird to me up here. I'm not sure what that is with maybe the monitors
or something, but the Apostle Paul was a man who fully surrendered his life to Christ.
I believe that he recognized that he was bought with a price and daily, I believe, as you
study the life of the Apostle Paul, that he lived to glorify his Savior. He spoke about
living a life that was in full surrender. I am crucified with Christ. He said, I die
daily. He said that his desire was to bring honor and glory to his Lord. And I believe
that as you study his life and you begin to understand the truth of his surrender, that
as a result, the Lord used him in a mighty way. It sounds better, so thank you. And so
the Lord used him in a mighty way. It was during his second missionary journey that
God allowed him to enter into the city of Thessalonica. And we understand that by God's
grace a local church was established in the city of Thessalonica. God would then use the
Apostle Paul to write the epistle of 1 Thessalonians to the church. And then again, this epistle
that we're looking at this evening, 2 Thessalonians. And we find that as God would use the Apostle
Paul, of course, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God, to pen these letters
to these believers, we find that there was need for not only instruction, but there was
need for encouragement. The believers in Thessalonica were dealing with some great adversity. There
was much persecution that they were enduring. Of course, the Apostle Paul, as you read the
first letter to the church at Thessalonica, 1 Thessalonians, you will find that the Apostle
Paul rehearses and reminds them of the persecution that he and his team even endured at the beginning,
at the start of that church. And as we begin to think about the need for encouragement,
we understand this evening that there are times in our lives that each and every one
of us are in need of encouragement. There are circumstances and events that take place
in our lives. And what a blessing it is that someone would come alongside and encourage
us and give us that encouragement that we need. I'm thankful that even if there's not
a man that would come and encourage us, that God will encourage us. The Bible tells us
in Psalm chapter number three, we're reminded that the Lord is not only my helper and my
shield, but he is the lifter up of mine head. And what a blessing to think about that, because
David, as he's writing that third Psalm, he's dealing with much adversity, many reasons
in which he could be discouraged. But he says, the Lord is the lifter up of mine head. Many
years earlier in his life, if you look at the event, really, that seems to be surrounding
the penning of the third Psalm, that's really later in his life with the revolt of Absalom
and all that was taking place. But I want you to think about earlier, much earlier in
his life, even before he ascended to the throne, the Bible tells us that after the Amalekites
came in, the Ziklag and all that took place, and the men were ready to stone him, the Bible
tells us that David encouraged himself in the Lord. And what a blessing. This church
was in need of some encouragement. Not only were they in need of encouragement, but they
were in need of some instruction. If we'd be honest, we understand that we too, at times,
we don't know, we don't know everything and we need to be instructed. We need to be instructed
in the ways of the Lord. And I'm thankful that even as I mentioned this morning, on
this Wednesday evening, we'll be dealing with the subject that the Lord is my teacher.
And I'm thankful that we have a divine teacher. I'm thankful that the Holy Spirit, the author
of Scripture, that he is the divine teacher. One of his ministries is to teach and begin
to think about the truth. And now as we consider and just kind of set the background, if you
will, for this particular verse of Scripture, we find they've been encouraged and now they'll
be instructed. Notice what it says in verse number one of 2 Thessalonians chapter number
two. The apostle Paul says this, now we beseech you brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ, I'm thankful that he's coming. Aren't you? He's saying tonight about Jesus is coming
again. And man, that first song that we sang this evening, man, it was, you were, I mentioned
it right after I got up here. You sang it like you believed it. You're singing it like
you were waiting for him to come. You're listening for the trumpet. Amen. And brother Mershawn
will be with us in September. And he always says, I'm looking for the upper taker, not
the undertaker. And a hallelujah, the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Notice what it says.
And by our gathering together unto him, our gathering together unto him. I've used that
phrase at the end of verse number one as the title for our message this evening, our gathering
together unto him. He continues and says this in verse number two, that you be not
soon shaken in mind or be troubled neither by spirit nor by word nor by letter as from
us as that the day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive you by any means for that day
shall not come except there shall come a falling away first. And that man of sin be revealed
the son of perdition. We find that in these few verses leading through the teaching that
will go and fully be given in 2 Thessalonians chapter number two, that the apostle Paul
is seeking to instruct these believers. And he says, he gives us some insight in verse
number two as to what was taking place. He says that you be not soon shaken in mind or
be troubled neither by spirit nor by word. Notice what he says, nor by letter as from
us as that the day of Christ is at hand. It seems quite evident as you were to study
the epistle of 2 Thessalonians that there were some that were trying to deceive the
believers in the church that were actually writing letters under the guise of being from
the apostle Paul saying that the day of Christ was at hand. And we find that Paul says, listen,
let no man deceive you by any means. He says in verse number five, remember ye not that
when I was yet with you I told you these things. Listen, we too forget some things, don't we?
We begin to hear something else and there's some other something that comes along. Listen,
I'm so thankful for the word of God that we have this whole book, the complete canon of
scripture that we can go to and we can understand what God has given us and what he has revealed
to us. And we find here that as we begin to look and focus in our attention on this thought,
our gathering together unto him. I began to do some study as I was preparing for the
message and I don't often get into the languages, but this was of great interest to me as I
looked at this particular verse of scripture and noted that phrase, our gathering together
unto him. The Greek word that is used there is only used two times in all of the New Testament.
And that often when you see something like that as I study and I prepare, as you see
a particular word that is used just a one or two or three times, it's of interest. You
want to find out where else that word might be used. And it was of great interest to me
because here in 2 Thessalonians 2 and verse number one, the apostle Paul is writing to
a local church and he's writing to a local church about a future event, our gathering
together unto him. It's a future event. But as he's writing to them and he uses that word
that is translated for us gathering together, the only other time in the New Testament that
that word is used is in Hebrews 10 verse 25. And it's in that verse of scripture that the
Bible teaches us not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the matter of some
is, but exhorting one another and so much the more as you see the day approaching. So
I want you to think about this and I hope that this evening it will be an encouragement
to you if you're taking notes, number one, the current gathering. We're going to get
to the truth of our text of scripture, our gathering together unto him. But as we consider
this evening, this word that's only used twice in all of the New Testament, I want you to
consider the current gathering. The apostle Paul is writing to a local church. A local
church by definition is to assemble, to gather together. The Greek word for church is ekklesia.
I think it's like 107 out of 113 times in the New Testament it's referring to the local
church. Almost exclusively you find that when the church is referenced in the New Testament
it's local church. We understand and we could speak about the universal church, but we speak
as we look at the letters that are written, the epistles that are written to local New
Testament churches. And we find that as the apostle Paul would encourage these believers
and instruct these believers with regard...
to a future gathering, he uses that same word
that he would give the instruction with regard to our current gathering.
I mean, think about the current gathering, the local church.
Turn over to Hebrews 10, if you will, and I want you to see here just a couple of things
as we think about the current gathering.
The church is to assemble.
We argued that greatly over the last few years.
We fought for that.
Why? Because the church, by definition, assembles.
That's what it does.
We need each other.
Listen, you understand this evening that the church
was not the idea of Constantine or some other individual.
The church is God's idea.
Let me say it this way. The church is God's bride.
The church is important.
The Bible tells us in Ephesians 5, as husbands are to love your wives,
even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it.
God has no other program, no other plan for this era but the church,
the local New Testament church.
And the church is to gather.
The church is the pillar and ground of the truth.
And what a joy to understand that.
When we begin to think about the current gathering again,
he's writing, and I hope this evening we can understand,
I can effectively communicate what God's put in my heart.
But we think about this local church at Thessalonica,
and as they would gather together, their current gathering,
they were being encouraged from Paul with regard to a coming gathering,
a future gathering.
But we focus just for a moment on the current gathering, the purpose.
What is the purpose that we gather?
Notice in verse number 24, the Bible says this,
And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works.
Now that word provoke sometimes can be used in a negative context.
Somebody provoked me to do something and what have you.
But we find that it can also be used, as we find here in this text,
in a very positive manner.
The Bible teaches that fathers were not to provoke our children unto wrath.
But we find here that he says, what are we doing?
We're considering one another, and then notice where he says,
to provoke unto love and to good works.
The word provoke in the 1828 Noah Webster's Dictionary
is first defined this way, to call into action.
I like that.
To call into action, to provoke.
And what is it that we're calling one another into action to do
as we're considering one another and provoking?
It's unto love and to good works.
Now consider with me the first aspect in verse number 24
as he says that it's to provoke unto love.
Jesus said this, turn over to John 13, if you will.
Keep your place here in Hebrews, we'll be back in just a moment.
But look over at John chapter number 13 and notice with me what Jesus says.
This is, of course, the last few days that he would be here on earth
before he'd go to the cross of Calvary.
He was preparing his disciples for all that would take place.
He had just washed the feet of the disciples to start the 13th chapter,
giving them great teaching and great instruction,
an example of being a servant.
The lady sang this morning, make me a servant, dear Lord,
and what a great song.
But we find at the end of this text of Scripture,
notice in verse number 34, Jesus says this,
A new commandment I give unto you,
that ye love one another as I have loved you,
that ye also love one another.
By this, by what our love one for another,
shall all men know that ye are my disciples,
if ye have love one to another.
So the first purpose as we look at this text in Hebrews 10, verses 24 and 25,
that uses this word with regard to this gathering,
this current gathering.
We gather together, we're considering one another,
we're provoking one another first to love, to love.
We're to love as Christ loved.
We find that he says that by this, by our love one for another,
all men will know that we're his disciples.
We studied last year through the book of 1 John,
many times as you reference through the book of 1 John,
you see the reference to brotherly love and loving one another.
And the fact of the matter is that he says there that if you say that you love God
but you hate your brother, you're a liar.
I mean, that's strong language.
He says, listen, you can claim anything, but what does the evidence support?
We find that here Jesus would give this instruction,
and it's so interesting to me when you think about the greater context
of the instruction that Jesus is giving.
He's speaking about love here, and then he gets into the 14th chapter,
and he says, let not your heart be troubled.
He says, you believe in God, believe also in me.
In my Father's house are many mansions.
If it were not so, I would have told you.
Notice, I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again,
notice where he says, and receive you unto myself.
That's exactly the gathering that we're speaking about in 2 Thessalonians 2,
in verse number one.
But before Jesus would come back and receive us unto ourselves,
there's a current gathering.
The saints of God are to gather together.
We find this provoking one another to love.
Notice he says, and good works.
We know that good works don't save anyone.
They can't. It's impossible.
But we do understand that the fruit of salvation is good works.
You read the book of Titus.
You find repeatedly through the book of Titus about good works.
You read in the book of Ephesians.
Notice, we'll look at that passage, Ephesians chapter number 2.
We'll get back to Hebrews in just a moment.
But in Ephesians chapter number 2, we notice here in this text of Scripture,
we often reference verses 8 and 9 of the book of Ephesians
with regard to salvation by grace through faith, apart from works.
The Bible says in verse number 8 of Ephesians 2,
for by grace are you saved through faith,
and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God,
not of works, lest any man should boast.
He continues this. He says,
for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works,
which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them.
We don't work to gain our salvation.
We don't work to keep our salvation.
But we are to work for the master.
And what a privilege it is to serve him.
What a privilege.
And notice as we look at that current gathering,
as that word is used in Hebrews 10 in verse number 25,
but we look at the preceding verse in verse number 24,
and speaking about this current gathering,
and we're to consider one another,
and to provoke unto love and to good works.
Then he says this,
not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together.
And then notice this little phrase,
he says the manner of some is.
You know, as you read this verse of Scripture
and you think about that little statement,
even all the way back in the first century,
there were some that were forsaking the assembling.
It's nothing new that folks don't attend church regularly.
It should not discourage us.
It should not be a source of discouragement.
But we do find that there is, as we find here,
evidence that there were some that were forsaking the assembling.
I believe this evening it is a great privilege to assemble.
I really do.
Listen, it bothers me greatly when we can't assemble.
I hate snow on Saturdays.
I just do.
I really do.
It bothers me greatly.
Why?
Because I want to assemble.
The church is supposed to assemble.
Down here on this earth we have things at times,
I'm not talking about excuses for not assembling,
decisions that someone will make on not assembling,
but I'm just talking about circumstances that could prevent the assembling.
I'm talking about weather.
I'm talking about sickness and all of those types of things.
Listen, you get ill and you get sick
and you can't be in church for a period of time.
I talk to Ms. Joyce every time I see her.
You know what she says to me?
I want to be in church.
I just want to be in church.
Give her an iPad so that she can watch church.
She has the iPad with her.
She might be watching tonight.
I don't know.
But you know what she says?
It's not the same.
I agree 100%.
There's something about gathering.
About gathering.
You can look at the statistics and you can find that church attendance has been on the decline
even before COVID.
And of course, it's increased exponentially with COVID and even after and what have you.
But I want you to see that he continues and he says this,
but exhorting one another.
Exhorting one another.
And I want you to think about that word, exhorting one another.
It carries with it the idea of encouraging.
It carries with it this idea to call to one side.
You know, you can't do that unless you assemble.
You can't be called to someone's side to aid them and to encourage them.
You cannot be effective in that responsibility of that purpose of gathering if you don't assemble.
It's just not possible.
Can't do it.
We find that he continues and so much.
The more so much the more as you see the day
Approaching. Let me ask you church. Do you see the day approaching? I
mean seriously and
He said so much the more
We got churches all over our landscape that are canceling services
I'm talking about just taking it off their service schedule entirely
I'm talking about I I've spoken with people that that don't even attend our church that say yeah
You know our church stopped having we don't have this service anymore. We don't have a Sunday night service anymore
We don't have a Wednesday night service anymore. We don't have a Sunday school anymore. We don't
Listen the Bible says and so much the more as you see the day
approaching
I'm thankful that God has given us
This instruction with regard to the current gathering we understand ultimately that as we gather together
Yes to provoke one another and to love and good works to exhort one another
Ultimately, we're to worship the Lord
We get to come and corporately
Worship God as a body of believers
You know, it's a it's a blessing
you think about singing the great hymns of the faith and
That that singing this evening and
This morning you just think about singing the great hymns of faith as we're we're worshiping God
We're seeking to exalt and magnify our God in a sense
I believe that this current gathering
That we speak of that we see in the text as we would look at these two references within
The New Testament of this single Greek word the two places in which it's used
We see the current gathering and I would say this in a sense this evening. The current gathering is preparation for a coming gathering
Number one the current gathering number two consider with me a coming
Gathering we go back to 2nd Thessalonians chapter number two
In verse number one and the Bible says now we beseech you brethren notice by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ
I'm so thankful that he's coming
I don't know the day nor the hour and neither do you and by the way, if anyone tells you they do they're lying on
the authority of God's Word
No man knoweth the hour
Amen, all these people that want to try to predict and say it's going to be no no
God said there's people that try to get into numerology and they want to study all these things and got all this extensive
No man knows
But he's coming
he's coming and he says by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ notice this and by our
gathering together
unto him I
Hope this evening that just reading those words
About our gathering together unto him
encourages your heart
Because one day one glorious day
We are going to be gathered together
Unto him
Who's him of the Lord Jesus Christ our Savior?
We'll see him many songs have been written about seeing our Savior face to face and what a wonderful
glorious truth that is and
This evening as we begin to think about the the truth that is before us
I want you to go back just a few pages the first Thessalonians chapter number four and look at the previous teaching because remember
Paul said in verse number five of 2nd Thessalonians to remember ye not that when I was yet with you
I told you these things not only when he was there
But even in the first epistle that he wrote and notice what he says beginning in chapter 4 in verse number 13 of 1st Thessalonians
He says but I would not have you to be ignorant brethren
concerning them which are asleep that you sorrow not even as others which have no hope and
What a joy to know that God has given us the instruction. He wants us to be informed
He wants us to understand some things and he says this for if we believe that Jesus died and rose again
Hallelujah, he died
According to the scriptures. He was buried and he rose again
According to the scriptures and he ever liveth to make intercession for us notice
It says even so them also would sleep in Jesus will God bring with him
That's those that would die before his return
We know some people that have died some saints of God that have died and
Jesus has not come back because we're still here
They died
And so it says here that he's speaking about those that that sleep in Jesus will God bring with him notice
What he says in verse 15 for this we say unto you by the word of the Lord
This is not Paul just sharing his opinion. This is not Paul
Just saying I'm gonna give you my thoughts or my ideas here. This is my two cents
No by the word of the Lord that we which are alive and remain under the coming of the Lord
Shall not prevent them which are asleep now. No, I I hope I'm part of that alive and remaining when he comes
I really do I'll be 43 in July. I still consider that to be young
It's not as young as it used to be because several years ago. It was younger younger
Just you know
it's going the other way and some of you know and
Someone told me last week that the the birthday they were celebrating this week was the last one that they're celebrating and they're gonna just start
celebrating every other year and
The reality is that we're each of us are getting older, but I I really I think it'd be wonderful to be alive
when the Lord comes back I
Don't know if I will or not, but it'd be precious but notice in verse 16
for the Lord
himself
Shall descend from heaven with a shout aren't you thankful? He's not just sending an angel
He's coming himself
What did that what did they say at the?
Ascension those angels that were sitting there with the disciples that said hey, why stand you gazing up in heaven this?
same
Jesus and here we find that the Bible says for the Lord
himself
Shall descend from heaven with a shout with a voice of the archangel and with the trump of God
The dead in Christ shall rise first then
We which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air
but notice what it says at the end of verse number 17 and
So shall we ever be?
with the Lord
Wherefore
Comfort one another with these words
These words are comforting words. In fact, these are some of the most comforting words that I know
And you begin to look here at this text of Scripture and begin to think about this coming
Gathering that is spoken of when the Apostle Paul is saying to these believers that are in need of encouragement in need of instruction
He says listen. I beseech you brethren by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and by our
gathering together
unto him
The great significance about this event is that we're going to be with the Lord the one who died for us
the one who loves us I
Mean we can't even comprehend
All that he is to us, but we will ever be
with the Lord
That's wonderful
Notice as we look in the second chapter or the second chapter of 2nd Thessalonians, it says our
Gathering together unto him here
We find the Bible teaches in 1st Thessalonians 4 it says and by the way
Though this event is explained to us as to the process or the progress and what's going to take place
You understand that happens like that it faster than that
In a moment the twinkling of an eye
So 1st Corinthians 15 says and so we find here that the Bible says that the Lord himself shall descend from heaven in verse 16
With the shout with the voice of the archangel with the trump of God and the dead in Christ shall rise first then
We which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds. So notice this great gathering
this great gathering
We think about the church in
Thessalonica you think about that local church we think about fellowship Baptist Church here in Oakton, Virginia
and we think as we look at the New Testament and look at all of the references and
so many of them specifically being dealt with in a
Approaching the the subject of a local church, but now you think about all of the redeemed
gathering together
What a reunion
What a gathering that will be
Begin to think about this
Gathering and I begin to think about this truth where the Bible says then we which are alive the dead in Christ
They're gonna rise first, but then we which are alive remain shall be caught up
Notice what it says together with them in the clouds and we're going to meet the Lord in the air
And it says and so shall we ever be with the Lord
And there's gonna be a great reunion you ever go to a family reunion I
Mean you have family reunion, right? I haven't been to a
As a child, I remember going to a couple of family reunions and remember meeting people. I never met before
And as you get older, I mean at least on on my parents side of the family and what-have-you
There's not I don't even remember the last time there was a new reunion that was scheduled or planned
But it seems as if at this stage in life most times the reunion takes place unfortunately at a funeral
And a funeral is a setting, if you will, if we could look at it that way, as a time of
a gathering and people, there's some level of family that gathers in a reunion of a sense.
And I know that now, at the age that I am, I meet these people, I say, you don't remember
me, do you?
Sorry.
No idea.
You ever have somebody say, they say, well, yeah, you were just in diapers the last time
I saw you.
Well, that was a lot of years ago.
And they want to remind you of some things when you're a little kid and what have you.
But the reality is that we know what it is to have a reunion.
See somebody that you've not seen for a while.
Not too long ago, we preached from Genesis with the reunion between Jacob and Esau.
Man, what a reunion that was.
I mean, there was some fear and trepidation with regard to how the receiving would be
and all that would take place.
But when you read the text of Scripture, you see a great reunion.
I want you to think about all the saints of God, all the redeemed, gathering together.
I mean, the most glorious part of it is that we're being brought together unto the Lord.
But what a gathering that's going to be.
See here, when we think about the current gathering, in a certain sense, it's temporary.
We gather together and then we depart.
Some depart sooner than others.
Some are told by the pastor, you can turn off the lights and lock the doors.
By the way, that encourages me.
It does.
Why?
Because there's a bond.
There's a desire to fellowship.
But as the gathering that is current, that is amongst local churches, is a temporary
gathering, that gathering, that coming gathering, is a permanent gathering.
There'll be no parting over there.
Isn't that wonderful?
And as I begin to think about this truth this evening, I begin to consider the wonderful
truth that God has given us about the church, the age in which we're living, and the local
church, and the ministry in the local church.
The reality is that there are thousands of other local churches around the globe that
gather together in their region and their locale the same way that we do.
In fact, if you travel and you go on vacation, maybe you travel for work, you've had the
opportunity to go and gather with another assembly.
And it's really interesting how you can find brothers and sisters in Christ almost anywhere
you go.
At times, there's a language barrier.
There's a cultural barrier.
There's things that are just different to us that we don't understand, and we're different
to them, and they don't understand.
I think about that language barrier I shared with you when I stood there at the church
in Arapuato, Mexico, and standing there, and those, I couldn't speak but ten or twelve
words of Spanish, and they didn't know but two words of English.
But man, there was something about a bond that we had in Christ, precious.
And you can travel all over this world, and you can find believers, and you can find where
they're gathering in a local assembly, just like we are.
And it's a temporary thing, and at times, we just had the Espinosas with us just a couple
of Wednesdays ago.
They were here several years ago, and they moved away.
You know, since they moved away from here, they've been to like three or four different
places.
They just keep getting moved from one place to another.
We're in a season.
Northern Virginia is known for transient situation, just as what it is.
In almost twelve years of ministry, we've had several people that have departed, thankfully
not because they got mad at the preacher.
But people move.
We're in a season right now.
We have a farewell fellowship this evening.
We're in a season right now where we have a number of folks that are moving along.
We had a number of folks move last year.
We have a number of folks that are moving this year.
And that's just part of ministry.
You know what's interesting about it?
God allows those people to move to another location and assemble with a local church
there in a current gathering.
And we continue to gather here and by God's grace and with God's help, we'll reach more
people that will gather together.
And maybe God would be pleased to send us some people like people are being sent from
us and we gather together, right?
But one day, there's a coming gathering where all the redeemed, I mean, I hope that encourages
you tonight because this life that we're living, listen, it's not about us trying to build
an empire behind some individual's name or by some church name.
No, no, it's God's work.
And as we understand that it's God's work and we understand that it's God's church and
he said, I will build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
And as he said that he's coming to get his bride, that we know at that time, there's
a future, a coming gathering and what a glorious day that is going to be.
And I hope this evening that as we go through a season as a church with some people leaving,
it just is what it is.
It's part of ministry.
It's part of ministry in Northern Virginia.
I was feeling bad, October of last year.
I didn't know some of the people that are leaving now are leaving, but it was October
of last year.
I was, just to be very transparent with you, I was kind of feeling bad for myself.
It was just for a moment, but I'm just being transparent with you.
And I was heading to a pastor's conference.
By the way, those are never a waste of time.
There are times in which God will allow me to go to a pastor's meeting and be an encouragement
to someone else.
There are times that God will allow me to go to a pastor's meeting and be encouraged.
It's a blessing.
And I remember in October, we were going to Pastor Ken Sparks' church where the teens
just had the youth rally out there at Timber Ridge and we're going to his church.
I was traveling there by myself.
And I remember talking to my good friend in the ministry, Pastor Phil Bishop.
And we're being able to talk and talk about people that were moving away.
And he said, Oh brother, that's nothing.
And if you guys know Brother Bishop, he's a real deep voice.
Brother man, that's nothing.
We have 87 people that are leaving our church this year, right, with this deep voice.
If you know Brother Bishop, that's how he talks.
I said, what in the world?
There are a lot more people that are just relocating in this particular season.
It's part of ministry.
But the wonderful thing is that we understand it's not our ministry, it's God's ministry.
And as we understand that as God would move people as He sees fit, and again, when we
understand that it's God's ministry, He's allowed to do that.
Amen?
Do you agree?
He's allowed to do that.
God is allowed to move people around.
It's His ministry.
It's His work.
And as He moves people around, they get to go and serve in other local places where there's
a current gathering and use their talents for the Lord.
I've had opportunity to hear of folks that have moved from our church years, again, after
ministering here for the number of years that I have.
Not that it's an extended period of time, but we've had people that have moved.
Somebody moved to Florida.
No missions program in their church that they began to attend.
But they were familiar with a missions-minded church here.
They call it pastor.
How do I convince this pastor we need to have a missions conference, that we need to support
missionaries?
What can I do?
How can you help me?
And through a series of events and phone calls and interactions and emails and so on and
so forth, that church that was 50 years old had its first missions conference, supported
its first missionaries.
That's God's work.
That's what God is able to do.
And as we consider the current gathering, I hope that God would help us to not be discouraged
or defeated when people are moving away, when God is moving pieces, that we'd understand
that He has a better view and understanding than we do, that we keep our eyes on the wonderful
truth that there is a coming gathering, and there'll be no parting over there.
What a wonderful truth.
We will be with the Lord forever.
And it actually says at the end of verse 17 of 1 Thessalonians 4,
And so shall we, that's the corporate gathering, so shall we, the redeemed, ever be with the Lord.
Isn't that wonderful?
Hallelujah.
I'm so thankful that God has revealed these truths to us.
I hope that we'd live every day like it's our last day.
I hope that we'd live every day in light of a soon return.
We're seeing Jesus is coming again.
If you hear me sing it, maybe evening, maybe morning, maybe noon, maybe evening, and we'll
be soon.
That's what I say.
I believe Jesus is coming soon.
The Bible teaches us in the book of 1 John, chapter number 3, that every man that hath
this hope in Him. He purifies Himself even as He is pure. That we redeem the time that
we live in light of His soon return. See, there's a current gathering. And in a sense,
it's just preparation for a coming gathering. And what a wonderful gathering that is going
to be. Let's pray together. Father, we love You. We thank You for loving us. We thank
You for Your Word, for the truth of Your Word. We thank You for the opportunity that we have
to serve You. I pray God that You would help us to be encouraged this evening. I pray Lord
that as we consider the truth of Your Word with regard to this current gathering, Lord
that we would be faithful to be in our places. Lord that we would understand the great privilege
that is ours to gather together, understanding that one day, one glorious, glorious day,
we the redeemed will gather together most importantly unto You, Lord, and to be with
You forever. I pray God that You'd help us to be faithful. Help us, Lord, to do what
You've called us to do. I pray that we'd keep our eyes on Jesus, the author, the finisher
of our faith. Well, thank You for every decision that's made, for it's in Christ's name we
pray. Would you stand with me? Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Kate's going to play quietly
on the piano. And as she does, we'll have a time of invitation. Maybe the Lord spoke
to your heart. Maybe you just want to thank God for the church. You want to thank God
for the privilege of gathering. Maybe you want to make some commitment to God.